---
layout: posts
title: "Batcher 0.5 Released"
author: "Kamil Burda"
category: news
---

<!-- end of summary -->

Changes to the export settings:
* Added a button named `Options...` in the main dialog to adjust options previously only available when adding the `Export` procedure.
* Rearranged export settings horizontally, both in Export Layers and Export Layers (Quick).
* Renamed `Save in Folder` to `Folder` and `Save As` to `Name` for brevity.
* The native file format dialog is no longer displayed by default. File format options are now adjusted in the export options (displayed by pressing the `Options...` button). This behavior can be toggled back if desired, particularly when you need to choose the image metadata to preserve (this can currently be adjusted only via native file format dialogs).
* By default, when a file about to be exported already exists with the same name, the new file will be renamed. This was inconsistent previously (e.g. when running non-interactively, the default was to skip the new files).
* The default export folder is now the `Pictures` user folder instead of `Documents`.
* The file extension is now validated automatically. An invalid file extension is automatically reverted to the last valid value instead of displaying warnings.
* The overwrite prompt is now displayed in Edit/Export Layers (Quick) if `Show This Dialog` is checked.

Changes to the `Export` procedure:
* For Export Layers, the `Export` procedure now performs additional export instead of overriding the default export. The procedure name for Export Layers is now `Also export as...` to reflect this change. The name changes automatically as you modify the file extension (e.g. `Also export as PNG` if the file extension is `png`).
* For Export Layers, when the `Export` procedure is added, values of the options are copied from the default export (e.g. the output folder will be identical to the one currently selected in the main dialog).
* Add a new option `If a file exists:` that allows skipping the dialog asking the user to handle existing files and setting a fixed mode for all files.
* Removed the `Preserve layer name after export` option. The layer name is now always preserved.

Other changes:
* The `Rename` procedure for Export Layers now performs renaming on top of the default renaming (the text entry next to `Name`) instead of overriding it.
* File load and file save procedures can no longer be added as custom procedures due to being redundant (loading a file would have no effect and file save procedures are already covered by the `Export` procedure).
* The plug-in no longer crashes if the automatic update of plug-in settings to the latest version fails. Instead, the settings are reset.

Bug fixes:
* Fixed unchangeable file extension in Export Layers (Quick).
* Fixed overwrite prompt not being displayed for `Export` procedures for Edit Layers.
* Fixed a crash when starting the plug-in if text layer(s) were selected in the preview and plug-in settings were saved.
* Fixed a crash when in-dialog warning messages were displayed on plug-in startup (e.g. if the plug-in was saved with an ill-formatted file extension).
* Removed the "Flatten" option from `Merge Back-/Foreground` as it was unsupported and caused merging to fail.

[Download at GitHub](https://github.com/kamilburda/batcher/releases/tag/0.5)
