---
layout: posts
title: "Batcher 0.4 Released"
author: "Kamil Burda"
category: news
---

<!-- end of summary -->

New features:
* Created separate dialogs and menu entries for batch-editing layers, named `Edit Layers...` and `Edit Layers (Quick)`. Separate settings are provided for editing and exporting.
* Added `Export Selected Layers` and `Edit Selected Layers` menu entries when right-clicking on selected layers in GIMP. These behave as `Export Layers (Quick)` and `Edit Layers (Quick)`, respectively, except that only `Layers` and `Selected in GIMP` constraints apply.
* Added a new layer name pattern called `Full layer name` which preserves the entire layer name, including characters beyond the last '.'. This is equivalent to `[layer name, %e]`, only more convenient.

Changes to procedures and constraints:
* Simplified the insertion of background and foreground. The `Merge background`/`Merge foreground` procedure is added automatically and is no longer available to be added manually. A constraint named `Not background`/`Not foreground` is also added automatically that ignores the background/foreground during processing. Updating the color tag in the `Insert background`/`Insert foreground` procedure also updates the color tag in the constraint.
* Added back the `Visible` constraint displayed on the first run/after reset. This was removed in the previous version; this time, however, `Also apply to parent folders` is not checked by default.

User interface changes:
* When `Export Layers (Quick)` is run for the first time, a small dialog with only export settings is now displayed. This reduces confusion as to where (output folder) and how (file extension, name pattern) the layers are exported. That dialog can be skipped by simply unchecking `Show this dialog`.
* Dropdown menus are now consistently displayed below a GUI element and are left-aligned (e.g. menus displayed by pressing the `Add Procedure...` button or the `Settings` button).
* Renamed `Import Settings...` to `Load Settings from File...` and `Export Settings...` to `Save Settings to File...` for clarity, respectively.
* Moved `Reset Settings` menu entry under the `Settings` button to the bottom.
* Closing the main dialog automatically can be turned on/off via the new `Close when Done` menu under the `Settings` button.

Bug fixes:
* Fixed the `Rename` procedure not renaming layer groups when editing layers.
* Fixed the `Remove folder structure` procedure not working when editing layers. A separate procedure with the same name was added for editing that also allows setting the visibility of child layers based on whether all its parents are visible.
* Fixed the `Scale` procedure throwing errors if the resulting width or height would be 0 pixels. The new width and height will now always be at least 1 pixel.
* Fixed the `Selected in GIMP` constraint applying only on a single layer when editing layers.
* Fixed incorrect progress bar text if the user chose the new file to be renamed (to avoid overwriting a file with the same name).

[Download at GitHub](https://github.com/kamilburda/batcher/releases/tag/0.4)
