---
layout: posts
title: "Batcher 0.8 Released"
author: "Kamil Burda"
category: news
---

<!-- end of summary -->

General changes:
* Updated Batcher to work with GIMP 3.0.0-RC2. **Due to backwards-incompatible changes, Batcher now requires GIMP 3.0.0-RC2 or later**. Saved settings from previous versions will still work properly.

New features:
* Non-destructive layer effects (filters, GEGL operations) can now be added as custom procedures. They can be found under the `Filters, Effects` category in the custom procedure browser. Beside parameters specific to each effect, you can adjust their blend mode, opacity, or they can optionally be merged into the layer (i.e. applied destructively).
* You may now attempt to apply a procedure to multiple layers at once using the new `All Layers` option, if available for a particular procedure (usually those having the `The input drawables` argument). Note that a procedure may still fail even if this option is available as it may not support working with multiple layers at once.
* Rename procedure: Added a new field named `[output folder]` that allows inserting the output folder selected in the plug-in dialog. You can adjust the path components to be inserted as well as the separator and wrapper around each component (in the same vein as `[layer path]`).
* Rename procedure: Added `%n` option to the `[layer name]` and `[layer path]` fields acting as the inverse of `%i`.

Changes to procedures and constraints:
* Removed the `Selected in preview` constraint. For Export Layers and Edit Layers, the `Selected in GIMP` and `With color tags` constraints already provide a good equivalent.
* Rename procedure: For the `[attributes]` field, changed the layer attributes from `%w`, `%h`, `%x` and `%y` to `%lw`, `%lh`, `%lx` and `%ly`, respectively.

User interface changes:
* Increased the width of the procedure browser so that there is more space to display labels for layer effects without the labels spanning too many lines.
* Added a small delay to the image preview when the selected item changes. This prevents excessive changes when the selection changes rapidly.
* Optimized the update of input items (when items are added/removed/renamed/updated upon changing procedures or constraints) if many items (hundreds and more) are present.
* For Export Layers and Edit Layers, moved the "Preview" label directly above the image thumbnail and added a label named "Input Layers" above the list of layers.
* Simplified how the preview is created internally, removing steps such as downscaling or merging layers.

Bug fixes:
* Fixed Export/Edit Selected Layers not working for group layers.
* Fixed export for procedures manipulating image dimensions, selection and other image-wide attributes (such as `script-fu-addborder`, `script-fu-circuit` or conversion to the indexed type).
* Fixed occasional artifacts in the preview.
* Fixed the preview not working correctly for group layers.
* Fixed constraints incorrectly excluding items in the preview. The bug caused items e.g. matching the `Matching File Extension` constraint to be excluded from the preview as its name may have changed during processing.
* Fixed occasional incorrect names in the preview under the image thumbnail.
* Fixed the `Rename` procedure renaming folders after items if `Rename folders` is enabled.
* Fixed the `Rename` procedure assigning incorrect descending numbers if `Rename folders` is enabled.
* Fixed a crash on plug-in startup if a file format is no longer available.
* Fixed loading settings related to layers (e.g. layers selected in the preview) whose names contain `/`.

[Download at GitHub](https://github.com/kamilburda/batcher/releases/tag/0.8)
