---
layout: post
title: "Batcher 0.3 Released"
author: "Kamil Burda"
category: news
---

<!-- end of summary -->

Redesigned user interface:
* Replaced the folder chooser widget with a folder chooser button.
* Procedures and constraints are now aligned vertically.
* Adjusting settings for procedures and constraints now immediately updates the preview for improved feedback and interactivity.
* Multiple edit dialogs (one for each procedure/constraint) can now be displayed simultaneously.
* Edit dialogs for procedures and constraints are no longer separate windows and are hidden/shown simultaneously with the main dialog.
* Completely reworked the custom procedure browser. You may now preview and tinker with a procedure/plug-in/script directly from the browser dialog before adding it to the list of procedures permanently.
* In edit dialogs, replaced PDB parameter names with human-readable descriptions where available. The names are displayed as tooltips in case a user wants to track down issues with a procedure.
* Moved detailed information about a procedure/constraint from a tooltip to a button showing a popup.
* Given the changes above, adjusted dialog dimensions, positions of separators and spacing/margins/border width.

Bug fixes:
* Added executable bit to the main `batcher.py` file. This could otherwise prevent the plug-in from being registered (i.e. from appearing in GIMP) on Unix-like platforms.
* Fixed a crash for PDB procedures containing GIMP resources (brushes, palettes, gradients, patterns) as settings.
* Prevented errors for PDB procedures with array arguments requiring a non-zero number of elements (e.g. pencil).
* Fixed an issue where color parameters for some PDB procedures could not be adjusted.
* Fixed redundant preview updates when the main, edit or procedure browser dialogs (re)gained focus.

Other changes:
* Renamed the `Export Layers Now` menu entry to `Export Layers (Quick)` for hopefully greater clarity.

[Download at GitHub](https://github.com/kamilburda/batcher/releases/tag/0.3)
