---
layout: posts
title: "Batcher 1.0-RC1 Released"
author: "Kamil Burda"
category: news
---

<!-- end of summary -->

**New major feature: Batch conversion of files.** You can now batch-process image files and convert them to a different file format, optionally applying procedures (scale, insert background, ...) and filtering the list of images to be processed via constraints (filenames having a particular file extension, beginning/ending with a prefix/suffix, ...).

Changes to procedures and constraints:
* Added a new procedure named `Align and offset` that allows aligning layer(s) with the image or another layer. You may also apply offsets with pixels or a percentage of image/layer width/height.
* For the `Scale` procedure, you may now choose whether to scale a layer (the default for Export Layers and Edit Layers) or the entire image (a new option, the default for Batch Convert).
* Renamed `Use layer size` to `Resize to layer size` and allowed customizing the layer. You may now resize the background layer, foreground layer or all layers (the latter effectively resizing the image to fit all layers).
* Added `Merge filters` as a built-in procedure that merges all visible filters (layer effects) in the specified layer. This is equivalent to adding the `gimp-drawable-merge-filters` procedure, only more convenient.
* Added a new constraint named `Matching text...` that allows filtering items that start with, contain or end with the specified text. You may also specify a Python regular expression or perform case-insensitive matching. The name of the constraint automatically changes as you adjust its options.
* The `Use file extension in layer name` option for the `Export` procedure now uses the original layer name. This way, you no longer need to specify the `[full layer name]` field just to preserve the file extension. This also allows using different name patterns that do not include the layer name (such as `image[001]`).
* Procedures and constraints causing errors are now automatically deactivated. This avoids spamming the user with warning dialogs.

User interface changes:
* Replaced the placeholder icon in the image preview when there is no selection.
* Labels describing procedure/constraint parameters are now insensitive (grayed out) if their corresponding GUI elements are insensitive.
* Export settings are now insensitive while exporting.

Other changes:
* When running Batcher non-interactively, the `settings-file` parameter is now a string rather than a `GFile` object for convenience.

Bug fixes:
* Fixed warnings issued by GIMP when adding or applying layer effects as custom procedures.
* Fixed the `Rename` procedure not working for Edit Layers.

[Download at GitHub](https://github.com/kamilburda/batcher/releases/tag/1.0-RC1)
