---
layout: posts
title: "Batcher 1.1 Released"
author: "Kamil Burda"
category: news
---

<!-- end of summary -->

General changes:
* Added Japanese translation (thanks to @re-unknown).
* Added Spanish translation (thanks to @ikizgz).
* Updated Dutch translation (thanks to @DiGro).
* "Procedures" are now referred to as "actions". "Action" is more intuitive.
* "Constraints" are now referred to as "conditions". "Condition" is more intuitive.
* In Edit Layers, actions are no longer applied to copies of group layers (inserted as regular layers), but rather to their original counterparts. This was previously done to avoid plug-ins failing on group layers. However, many plug-ins in GIMP 3 were removed in place of layer effects (filters) achieving the same result, the latter of which can be applied on group layers. Thus, there is little need to work on group layer copies now. This change also fixes a bug where creating a layer copy would create extra entries in the undo history.

New features:
* **New major feature: Batch-editing and saving images opened in GIMP as XCF**, available in `File -> Edit and Save Images` and `File -> Edit and Save Images (Quick)`. Existing GIMP images are saved to their respective locations, while new images are saved to the specified output folder.
* Added a new action named `Color correction`. You can adjust brightness, contrast, or apply levels or curves from a saved preset file. Both GIMP and Photoshop formats (.alv, .acv) for preset files are supported.
* Added a new action named `Crop`. You may crop the entire image or a layer in a variety of ways - cropping from edges, from a fixed position (top left, center, ...), to the specified aspect ratio, to the specified area (bounding box), or to remove empty borders.
* Replaced `Resize to layer size` with a more generic action named `Resize canvas` that allows several more resize modes (add borders, resize from position/area, resize to aspect ratio, resize to image size) and filling the newly added space with a color.
* Added a new action named `Rotate and flip`. You may rotate the entire image or a layer, along with several options such as the angle, or whether to rotate from the center or from a fixed point.
* Added a new condition named `XCF (native GIMP) file` that applies only to opened images associated with a native XCF file.
* Added a new condition named `Not XCF (native GIMP) file` acting as the inverse of `XCF (native GIMP) file`.

Changes to the user interface:
* Batch Convert: Changed `Add Files...` and `Add Folders...` to menu entries displayed when clicking the new `Add...` button. Likewise, `Remove Selected` and `Remove All` were moved under the new `Remove...` button.
* Batch Convert: Increased the initial preview height.
* If the output directory no longer exists and Batcher is started, the output directory is set to the Pictures folder (or another folder that is guaranteed to exist). Previously, "(None)" was displayed, which was confusing.
* Increased the default size of the main dialog.
* Increased the default size of the preview. For historical reasons, the preview was kept small to be consistent with the GIMP's Export menu. However, given that Batcher allows applying arbitrary filters, inspecting changes in a small preview can be difficult and the user is forced to manually resize the preview (this also assumes that the user is aware the preview size can be changed).

Changes to actions and conditions:
* You can now apply actions to layers inserted by actions other than `Insert background` or `Insert foreground`, e.g. `gimp-text-font` (which renders a text layer), by selecting `Layer Below (Background)` or `Layer Above (Foreground)` (depending on whether the layer is inserted before or after the current layer).
* Renamed `Background Layer` to `Layer Below (Background)` and `Foreground Layer` to `Layer Above (Foreground)` to make this feature more discoverable as per the change above.
* Scale:
  * Merged `Object to scale`, `Image` and `Layer` to a single widget.
  * Units for width and height are moved next to the width and height widgets, respectively.
  * More units beside pixels and percentages can be chosen from (the same ones available in GIMP). These units are recalculated automatically.
  * Switching between pixels, percentages and other units will now restore the last value for that unit.
  * Merged `Scale to fit`, `Keep aspect ratio` and `Dimension to keep` to a single widget.
  * Added a new option `Fit with padding` under `Aspect ratio` that fits the image/layer to the specified dimensions and fills the empty space with the specified color (transparent by default).
  * Added a new option to change the image resolution.
* Align and offset:
  * Merged `Another layer to align layers with` into `Object to align layers with`.
  * Units for x- and y-offsets are moved next to the x- and y-offset widgets, respectively.
  * More units beside pixels and percentages can be chosen from (the same ones available in GIMP). These units are recalculated automatically.
* Rename: Removed the `Rename images` option in Export Images due to being redundant there.
* `Matching text...`: Added `Does not start with text`, `Does not contain text` and `Does not end with text` options.
* Edit Layers: The `Selected in GIMP` condition is now added on the first run/after reset.
* File arguments can now be cleared (set to an empty value). This is useful if an action allows omitting a file.

Bug fixes:
* Fixed preview and export of images with linear precision.
* Fixed the `Scale` action always considering the layer size when keeping aspect ratio or scaling to fit dimensions.
* Fixed the output folder button not filling the empty space when increasing the dialog width.
* Fixed warnings when exporting layers or images opened in GIMP that are not native GIMP images (XCF).
* Fixed a crash when adding a layer effect (GEGL operation) whose name contains `/` or `.` (#74).
* Fixed URL to the Batcher user guide via the Help button (#73).
* Fixed a crash when running Batch Convert non-interactively if the path to the text files containing inputs is not specified.

[Download at GitHub](https://github.com/kamilburda/batcher/releases/tag/1.1)
