---
layout: posts
title: "Batcher 1.2.8 Released"
author: "Kamil Burda"
category: news
---

<!-- end of summary -->

This release focuses on usability improvements of built-in actions.

General changes:
* Updated Dutch translation (thanks to @DiGro).
* Replaced the `Merge visible layers and rasterize` export option with a dropdown. You now have a choice to remove the alpha channel (i.e. flatten) the image before export if no alpha channel is desired.

New features:
* Added `Flatten (Remove Alpha)` built-in action for convenience.

User interface changes:
* Entries representing patterns (e.g. in `Rename` or `Export`) now expand while typing, allowing to type longer patterns more easily. The default width of pattern entries was also increased for this purpose (#136).
* File arguments in actions now contain a text field and a button displaying a native file dialog, much like the output directory in e.g. Batch Convert.
* Scale: Renamed `New width` to `Width`, `New heigh` to `Height`. Renamed `Aspect ratio` to `How to scale` and its options for hopefully greater clarity, particularly in hopes of making the `Fit...` options more discoverable. `How to scale` is now placed before `Width` and `Height`.
* Scale, Rotate: The action name is now updated automatically based on the options chosen.
* Export, Scale, Rotate, Resize Canvas: Several options are now hidden when they are not usable. Some options which were previously insensitive (disabled) will now be shown/hidden instead. This change should reduce cognitive load on the user.
* Moved less common options (`Filter`, `Blend mode`) for Brightness-Contrast, Levels and Curves under More options.

Changes to actions and conditions:
* Brightness-Contrast, Levels, Curves: `Apply non-destructively` is now enabled by default for consistency with GIMP. Existing actions remain intact.
* Rotate: When using the custom angle and when rotating the entire image, the image will now be fit to its new bounds. This change makes the behavior of the action consistent with rotating by 90, 180 or 270 degrees. This behavior is disabled for existing Rotate actions when updating Batcher to this version, but can be enabled by checking `Resize image to fit`.

Bug fixes:
* Fixed processing and export of images with a precision (bit depth and gamma) different from the default (8-bit nonlinear) (#157).
* Fixed the GUI of initial actions on the very first start of Batcher not being set up properly. This resulted in many actions, notably `Resize to Layer Size`, displaying all options at once.
* The fix for crash on startup introduced in Batcher 1.2.6 will no longer require manually deleting the `parasiterc` file if you started 1.2.6 and then installed and started a later version.

[Download at GitHub](https://github.com/kamilburda/batcher/releases/tag/1.2.8)
