---
layout: posts
title: "Batcher 1.2.6 Released"
author: "Kamil Burda"
category: news
---

<!-- end of summary -->

This release improves watermark insertion and provides more layer operations, namely duplicating layers and applying actions to layers at a particular position.

General changes:
* `Layer Above (Foreground)` and `Layer Below (Background)` will now always consider the layer immediately above or below the current layer, respectively. Previously, if `Insert Foreground/Background` inserted layers with color tags, `Layer Above/Below` would only consider these tagged layers, regardless of other layers that could be inserted by custom actions immediately above/below the current layer. This behavior could cause confusion.

New features:
* Replaced `Insert Background` and `Insert Foreground` with `Insert Overlay (Watermark)`, which now also allows inserting text. Basic options such as position, size, opacity can be adjusted directly within this action (without having to add other actions and using `Layer Above` or `Layer Below`). This action will not be added as the first action - text or image watermarks are by default placed to the bottom right of the current image extents, which would cause confusion when `Resize to Layer Size` is placed after this action in Export Layers or Edit Layers (#124).
* In `Insert Overlay (Watermark)`, you can now specify patterns instead of a single file. This way, you are able to insert different background/foreground for each input image. Patterns can also be used for the text to be inserted.
* Added a new `Duplicate Layer` action, which inserts a copy of the specified layer in the same image.
* You can now apply actions to layers at arbitrary positions via the new `Layer at Position` placeholder. This can be useful if you insert multiple layers in an image or your images readily contain multiple layers, and you need to modify a specific layer that is not directly above or below the current layer. This only applies to layers at the top level, i.e. not inside group layers.
* For the `[image name]` field, added `%o` option that uses the original image name (before being renamed e.g. by the `Rename` action).
* If patterns are used in `Insert Overlay (Watermark)`, you can specify the image file path via the `[image file]` field.

User interface changes:
* If `Match input folders` is displayed on start, the default dialog focus will be set to the button for choosing a folder.

Changes to actions and conditions:
* `Merge Background` and `Merge Foreground` are no longer added automatically when `Insert Overlay (Watermark)` is added.
* Replaced `Merge Background` and `Merge Foreground` with a single action named `Merge Layer` that can be added by the user.
* Renamed the automatically added `Not Background/Not Foreground` conditions to `Without Color Tag: <color tag>` given the related changes for clarity.

Bug fixes:
* Fixed some options in `Crop` and `Resize Canvas` not working for text layers.
* Fixed names of actions and conditions displayed after reset not being updated properly. In particular, when resetting settings for Export Layers, the `Resize Canvas` action that is automatically added was not renamed to `Resize to Layer Size`.

[Download at GitHub](https://github.com/kamilburda/batcher/releases/tag/1.2.6)
